hey this is presto Walker a horse is
tied to an outside corner of a 20 foot
by 10 foot rectangular barn what is the
maximum area the horse can graze outside
the barn
if the Rope has length L solve for the
cases of L equals 5 feet and L equals 25
feet you should find the exact answer if
you are up for a challenge
solve for the case of L equals 50 feet
you can solve for the answer to 3
decimal places can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution we'll get started with the case
of L equals 5 feet the horse can graze
all distances that are 5 feet from the
corner of the barn if you sketch out the
shape this turns out to be 3/4 of a
circle with the radius of 5 so the
maximum area that the horse can graze
will be 3/4 of a circle with the radius
of 5 the area of a circle is PI R
squared and if we substitute in R equals
5 we get the area is equal to 75 pi
divided by 4 which is approximately 58
point 905 feet squared now let's tackle
the next case of L equals 25 feet the
problem starts out similarly or the
horse can graze a 3/4 circle where the
radius is equal to the length of the
rope but in this case there is a
difference the horse actually has
leftover rope after walking along one
side of the barn so when the horse is
going along the side of the barn that
has 10 feet there's actually 15 feet of
rope left over so the horse can graze
another quarter circle around this wall
of the barn
similarly for the barn which has a
20-foot wall there will be five feet of
rope left over so the horse can graze
another quarter circle of five feet
around this corner of the barn the
maximum area that the horse can graze
will be the sum of these three different
shapes the area will equal to be the
area of three quarters of a circle with
the radius of 25 one quarter of the area
of a circle with radius 15 and 1/4 of a
circle with the radius of 5 we can use a
formula for the area of a circle and
find out that this simplifies to be 21
25 pi divided by 4 which is
approximately 16 68 point 9 71 feet
squared so now let's tackle the more
challenging case of L equals 50 feet the
problem starts out just like the case of
L equals 25 where we have 3/4 circle and
there we leftover rope for each side of
the barn but now let's look at the
length that's left over around each of
the walls of the barn so for the wall
which has 10 feet there will be 40 feet
of rope left over so the horse can graze
40 feet around this wall and there will
still be leftover rope but it will
actually be covered in another case
which I'm going to show you so for the
wall which has 20 feet there will be 30
feet of rope left over and now the horse
can graze a quarter circle around this
with the radius of 30 so this is why I
didn't draw out the rest of that 40 foot
radius it's because it's actually going
to overlap with the other quarter circle
with the radius of 30 and now we end up
with a very sort of difficult shape
because the area that the horse can
graze is not simply the sum of circles
and quarter circles we end up with a
part of the grazing area that will
overlap so in order to
the total area we're going to have to
account for this portion that overlaps
I'm going to show you two different ways
to solve this problem one way will be to
approach it using calculus we're going
to directly solve for the area of the
overlap the other way we're going to use
trigonometry and we're going to solve
for the rest of this area by cutting it
up into different shapes where there's
no overlap so let's start out first by
considering the overlap directly we
could consider the area by adding up the
areas of these quarter circles and 3/4
circles and then subtracting out this
little area that overlaps so in order to
do that I'm going to magnify these
quarter circles and look at this region
which overlaps so in order to use
calculus we're going to put a coordinate
system I'll put the origin right where
the barn intersects the circle with the
radius of 40 so the circle with the
radius of 40 has an equation of x
squared plus y squared equals 40 it's
center is at the origin and it has a
radius of 40 we can solve this equation
for y we get the square root of 1600
minus x squared the other circle with
the radius of 30 this has a center
that's 20 feet to the right and 10 feet
down so the equation of this circle will
be X minus 20 squared plus y plus 10
squared equals 30 squared we can solve
this for y to figure out the equation of
this circle so in order to solve for the
area of the overlapping region we're
going to need to know where these two
circles intersect we can figure that out
by setting the two equations for these
two circles equal to each other we can
then solve this equation to get that X
is equal to 24 plus 4 times the square
root of 11
so now we're going to calculate directly
the area of this overlapping region so
we'll focus just on this overlapping
region it begins at the value of x
equals 20 the first portion where we go
up to x equals 24 plus 4 square root of
11 this will correspond to the circle
with the radius of 30 so we know the
equation for the circle and so that's
going to be the Y value up to this limit
we then will want to consider the rest
of this region where we go up to x
equals 40 the boundary of the shape here
will correspond to the boundary of the
circle with the radius of 40 so for the
remainder we're going to have y equals
the square root of 1600 minus x squared
so we've now figured out all the key
details so that we can set up two
integrals which directly calculate the
area we have the area of the overlapping
region being the different limits that
we've calculated and the different
functions which we've calculated so you
can put this in a numerical solver and
we'll get that this is approximately 340
one point seven seven nine four square
feet so we figured out the hard part of
this problem we can now go back to our
original diagram we can calculate that
the area that the horse can graze as the
area of these different 3/4 circles and
quarter circles minus the area of the
overlapping region we've just calculated
the area of the overlapping region and
then we go ahead and substitute in our
values for the area of these quarter
circles and three quarter circles and we
end up with an answer that the area that
the horse can graze is approximately
seventy five twelve point two oh two
square feet
so this is the approach to solve this
problem using calculus I'm now going to
show you a different approach which uses
trigonometry it'll be quite involved but
I'm going to show you that it's actually
possible to do it without calculus so
let's go through those steps we'll focus
on the region that overlaps so instead
of worrying about this region which
overlaps we're actually going to dissect
this region in the different shapes that
don't overlap the trick is to connect
the corners of the barn to the point at
which these two circles intersect we end
up forming a kite shaped quadrilateral
now the region above this kite shaped
quadrilateral is the sector of a circle
the region below this quadrilateral is
also the sector of a circle so we can
actually get rid of these quarter
circles that we've drawn and we can see
that we can calculate this entire region
by calculating the area of three
different non overlapping non
intersecting shapes or sorry they are
intersecting shape but they're non
overlapping so now it remains to
calculate the area of these three
different shapes so we'll start out with
the area of this quadrilateral the trick
is we're going to connect the diagonal
of the rectangular barn this will form a
triangle so we've connected a triangle
to the quadrilateral to create a bigger
triangle so we can calculate the area of
the quadrilateral by taking the area of
a larger rectangle and then subtracting
the area of a right triangle so we'll
start by calculating that the diagonal
of the rectangular barn is equal to ten
square root of five we can calculate
this because we know the two legs of
this right triangle and then we can use
the Pythagorean theorem to figure out
the diagonal so we'll input that as one
of the values to this triangular shape
we know the other lengths
are equal to the radiuses of these two
different circles we can also put in the
values for the legs of this right
triangle so we now the triangle where we
know three of its sides and we can
calculate its area using Heron's formula
the value of s here is equal to the
semi-perimeter it's one-half the
perimeter of this triangle so we can
substitute in the values for these known
legs lengths of the triangle and we end
up with the area of this triangle is
equal to 100 times the square root of 11
we then have the right triangle we can
calculate its area as 1/2 times its of
its base times a type so this is equal
to 100 so we figured out the area of
this quadrilateral is equal to 100
square root of 11 minus 100 it now
remains to calculate the area of these
circular sectors and in order to do that
we need to know what the central angle
of each of these sectors is so we'll go
ahead and start calculating some angles
we'll start out with the rectangular
barn and we'll consider the right
triangle well consider the lower right
triangle so we can calculate this angle
over here because we know in a right
triangle we've got the legs calculated
as 10 and 20 and we know the hypotenuse
is 10 square root of 5 so we can use
trigonometry to figure out this angle
and we use trigonometry to figure out
this other angle we have the inverse
cosine of square root of 5 over 5 and
the other angles the inverse cosine of 2
square root of 5 divided by 5 we now
need to calculate the angles in the
large rectangle which consists of the
quadrilateral plus one half of the
rectangular bar so how can we do that
well recall from before it that we've
calculated the three lengths of the
different sides if you know the lengths
of three sides of a triangle you can
calculate the angles of each of the
trying of the angles in the triangle by
using the law of cosines
so using this formula and using the
known lengths of these sides we
then calculate the two different angles
that we need in this calculation so
these will also be the inverse cosine of
something complicated so why do we do
this it's so that now we can calculate
the angles of these circular sectors so
we can calculate the angle of the rip of
the circular sector where the radius is
for T as equaling 180 degrees which is
PI radians - the inverse cosine where we
get rid of the angle from the big
triangle and then minus the other angle
from the right triangle of the bar so
we've taken the entire 180 degrees and
we subtracted out the other angles so
that leaves us with the angle of this
circular sector that we need to know we
can do the same thing for the circular
sector where the radius is 30 we take
the PI radians which is a straight line
and we subtract out the angles of the
two triangles which are not part of the
circular sector so we end up with a
complicated expression but we can do
this so now we just need to use the
formula for the circular the area of a
circular sector this will equal to the
radius squared times the central angle
divided by 2 we know the radius of each
of these sectors and we've just figured
out the angles so we can go ahead and
substitute in the values that we have
we'll get approximate answers and we can
put this all together that we figured
out the area that work we want to know
these three shapes all together is
approximately 1621 point seven one six
so now we go back to the problem that we
don't know the area that the horse can
graze so this will be the three quarter
circles with the radius of 50 plus the
rest of the area that we just calculated
so we put that all in and we again get
to the answer of approximately
seventy-five point one seventy-five
twelve point two oh two square feet
which is exactly the same
answer as the calculus method although
it took a little more involved
calculations we could figure it out
without calculus did you figure out this
problem thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch them on my blog mind your
decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch around social media at pressure
Locker and if you liked the video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description